# webassembly-experiments

This repository contains experiments with WebAssembly and using it across different languages. 

For wasm and the simple wasi case with no imports needed I am looking at a "calculator" that can add and subtract two integer. A use case could be as a plugin for computations. I chose this for several reasons:

* Fairly easy to do in wat to have a minimal reference "implementation"
* Something to compare to when it comes to "metrics" (size, number of exported functions, number of imported functions, ...)

So far it contains:

* `wasiconsole-hello-world`
  Building a WASI compliant WASM file on .NET 8, which is currently in Preview 5.
  Currently only writes to console and should be expanded to do the same as the `go` sample, i.e. use functionality only available in WASI.
* `samples\wasi\go`
  Hello World in go. Copied from [meteatamel/wasm-basics](https://github.com/meteatamel/wasm-basics/tree/main/samples/go-wasm)
* `dotnet-calling-wat`
  Using [bytecodealliance/wasmtime-dotnet](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime-dotnet) to call some simple wat code
* `samples\wasm\dotnet` contains three samples of .NET 7 WASM being called by JavaScript.
  * Two of them are basically the code generated by `dotnet new <template>` where template is `wasmbrowser` and `wasmconsole` for node.js. Used .NET 7 as I am using WSL2 for `node` stuff because `nvm` works better for me on Linux.
  * The third example is the "calculator" WASM module mentioned above.
* `samples\wasm\go` contains the "calculator" WASM module written in Go.
* `samples\wasm\wat` contains the "calculator" WASM module written in Wat.
